# R-Prog---Twitter-Sentiment-Analysis

### **ABSTRACT**:

Sentiment analysis (also known as opinion mining or emotion AI) refers to the use of natural language processing, text analysis, computational linguistics, and biometrics to systematically identify, extract, quantify, and study affective states and subjective information. This project addresses the problem of sentiment analysis in twitter; that is classifying tweets according to the sentiment expressed in them: positive, negative, neutral. Twitter is an online micro-blogging and social-networking platform which allows users to write short status updates of maximum length 140 characters. It is a rapidly expanding service with over 200 million registered users out of which 100 million are active users and half of them log on twitter on a daily basis - generating nearly 250 million tweets per day. Due to this large amount of usage we hope to achieve a reflection of public sentiment by analyzing the sentiments expressed in the tweets. Analyzing the public sentiment is important for many applications such as firms trying to find out the response of their products in the market, predicting political elections and predicting socioeconomic phenomena like stock exchange. Several Machine Learning algorithms can used to perform opinion mining on data. This project leverages the concepts of Naive Bayes algorithm and Natural Language Processing to achieve the results. Furthermore, the result obtained from each of these algorithms are compared to understand their respective suitability under varied conditions. 

**Keywords**: Naive Bayes Algorithm, Natural Language Processing, Twitter Sentiment Analysis, R programming
